['Decoding Somatic Driver Gene Mutations and Affected Signaling Pathways in Human Medulloblastoma Subgroups']
['2018']
['pediatric <span class="hitHilite">brain cancer</span>', 'infrequent mutations', 'tumor heterogeneity', 'bioinformatics', 'subclonal architecture', 'lysine methyl transferases']
['Medulloblastoma is the most common malignant pediatric brain tumor. Prior studies have concentrated their efforts studying the four molecular subgroups: SHH, Wnt, group 3, and group 4. SHH and Wnt are driven by their canonical pathways. Groups 3 and 4 are highly metastatic and associated with aberrations in epigenetic regulators. Recent developments in the field have revealed that these subgroups are not as homogenous as previously believed. The objective of this study is to investigate the involvement of somatic driver gene mutations in these medulloblastoma subgroups. We obtained medulloblastoma data from the Catalogue of Somatic Mutations in Cancer (COSMIC), which contains distinct samples that were not previously studied in a large cohort. We identified somatic driver gene mutations and the signaling pathways affected by these driver genes for medulloblastoma subgroups using bioinformatics tools. We have revealed novel infrequent drivers in these subgroups that contribute to our understanding of tumor heterogeneity in medulloblastoma. Normally SHH signaling is activated in the SHH subgroup, however, we determined gain-of-function mutations in ubiquitin ligase (CUL1) that inhibit Gli-mediated transcription. This suggests a potential hindrance in SHH signaling for some patients. For group 3, gain-of-function in the inhibitor of proinflammatory cytokines (HIVEP3) suggests an immunosuppressive phenotype and thus a more hostile tumor microenvironment. Surprisingly, group 4 tumors possess mutations that may prompt the activation of Wnt signaling through gain-of-function mutations in MUC16 and PCDH9. These infrequent mutations detected in this study could be due to subclonal or spatially restricted alterations. The investigation of aberrant driver gene mutations can lead to the identification of new drug targets and a greater understanding of human medulloblastoma heterogeneity.']
mutations,medulloblastoma,subgroups,driver,shh