['Factors associated with supportive care needs in glioma patients in the neuro-oncological outpatient setting']
['JUL 2017']
['Glioma', '<span class="hitHilite">Brain cancer</span>', 'Supportive care needs', 'Distress', 'Patient reported outcomes', 'Outpatient clinic', 'Neuro-oncology']
["Objective of this study aimed at assessing glioma patients' supportive care needs in a neurosurgical outpatient setting and identifying factors that are associated with needs for support. In three neuro-oncological outpatient departments, glioma patients were assessed for their psychosocial needs using the Supportive Care Needs Survey short-form (SCNS-SF34-G). Associations between clinical, sociodemographic, treatment related factors as well as distress (measured with the distress thermometer) and supportive care needs were explored using multivariable general linear models. One-hundred and seventy three of 244 eligible glioma patients participated, most of them with primary diagnoses of a high-grade glioma (81%). Highest need for support was observed in 'psychological needs' (median 17.5, range 5-45) followed by 'physical and daily living needs' (median 12.5, range 0-25) and 'health system and information needs' (median 11.3, range 0-36). Needs in the psychological area were associated with distress (R-2 = 0.36) but not with age, sex, Karnofsky performance status (KPS), extend of resection, currently undergoing chemotherapy and whether guidance during assessment was offered. Regarding 'health system and information needs', we observed associations with distress, age, currently undergoing chemotherapy and guidance (R-2 = 0.31). In the domain 'physical and daily living needs' we found associations with KPS, residual tumor, as well as with distress (R-2 = 0.37). Glioma patients in neuro-oncological departments report unmet supportive care needs, especially in the psychological domain. Distress is the factor most consistently associated with unmet needs requiring support and could serve as indicator for clinical neuro-oncologists to initiate support."]
glioma,distress,supportive,care,patients