['4-Hydroxy-7-oxo-5-heptenoic acid lactone is a potent inducer of <span class="hitHilite">brain cancer</span> cell invasiveness that may contribute to the failure of anti-angiogenic therapies']
['JAN 2020']
['<span class="hitHilite">Brain cancer</span>', 'Oxidative stress', 'Glioblastoma multiforme', 'Cancer stem cells', '4-Hydroxy-7-oxo-5-heptenoic acid lactone', '4-Hydroxynon-2-enal', 'PAR1', 'Matrix metalloprotease', 'Vimentin', 'NF-kappa beta p65', 'Proneural to mesenchymal transition', 'SOD', 'NOX4', 'Hypoxia']
['Previously, we discovered that free radical-induced oxidative fragmentation of the docosahexaenoate ester of 2-lysophosphatidylcholine produces 4-hydroxy-7-oxo-5-heptenoic acid (HOHA) lactone that, in turn, promotes the migration and invasion of endothelial cells. This suggested that HOHA lactone might similarly promote migration and invasion of glioblastoma multiformae (GBM) <span class="hitHilite">brain cancer</span> stem cells (CSCs). A bioinformatics analysis of clinical cancer genomic data revealed that matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)1 and three markers of oxidative stress - superoxide dismutase 2, NADPH oxidase 4, and carbonic anhydrase 9 - are upregulated in human mesenchymal GBM cancer tissue, and that MMP1 is positively correlated to all three of these oxidative stress markers. In addition, elevated levels of MMP1 are indicative of GBM invasion, while low levels of MMP1 indicate survival. We also explored the hypothesis that the transition from the proneural to the more aggressive mesenchymal phenotype, e.g., after treatment with an anti-angiogenic therapy, is promoted by the effects of lipid oxidation products on GBM CSCs. We found that low micromolar concentrations of HOHA lactone increase the cell migration velocity of cultured GBM CSCs, and induce the expression of MMP1 and two protein biomarkers of the proneural to mesenchymal transition (PMT): p65 NF-kappa beta and vimentin. Exposure of cultured GBM CSCs to HOHA lactone causes an increase in phosphorylation of mitogen-activated protein kinases and Akt kinases that are dependent on both protease-activated receptor 1 (PAR1) and MMP1 activity. We conclude that HOHA lactone promotes the PMT in GBM through the activation of PAR1 and MMP1. This contributes to a fatal flaw in antiangiogenic, chemo, and radiation therapies: they promote oxidative stress and the generation of HOHA lactone in the tumor that fosters a change from the proliferative proneural to the migratory mesenchymal GBM CSC phenotype that seeds new tumor growth. Inhibition of PAR1 and HOHA lactone are potential new therapeutic targets for impeding GBM tumor recurrence.']
lactone,gbm,hoha,mmp1,cancer